Array 1.31.0 (#2613)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/the-posthog-array-1-31-0.md

excerpt: PostHog 1.31.0 introduces Group Analytics, improved Correlation Analysis, a revamped overall user experience on Insights and 350+ more improvements and fixes.
---

Happy holidays from PostHog! This is our last release of the year. PostHog 1.31.0 introduces Group Analytics, improved Correlation Analysis, a revamped overall user experience on Insights and 350+ more improvements and fixes. Please note that a Postgres-based installation is no longer supported for PostHog 1.31.0.

<blockquote class='warning-note'>
<b>IMPORTANT!</b> Do not upgrade to this version if you’re using the Postgres-based version. Upgrade to ClickHouse first. Instructions can be found <a href="/docs/self-host/migrate-from-postgres-to-clickhouse" target="_blank">here</a>.
</blockquote>

## PostHog 1.31.0 release notes

> Don't see the new features on your self-hosted deployment? Remember to [update your PostHog instance](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

**Release highlights:**
- [Group Analytics](#group-analytics)
- [Improved Correlation Analysis](#improved-correlation-analysis)
- [Improved user experience](#improved-user-experience)

### Group Analytics

> Introducing Group Analytics! Group Analytics enable you to perform aggregation on multiple levels aside from Users. For instance, if you have a B2B product, you will now be able not only to identify unique individual users, but users belonging to a Company. This enables analytics such as retention by company, events performed by unique companies, among many others. 

Author: CC @macobo for thoughts

Reviewer: Let's add a link to the docs: https://posthog.com/docs/user-guides/group-analytics?utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=posthog-array-1-31-0

Reviewer: Or @joethreepwood do you think we should link to the blog post instead?

Author: Cool! I don't think we need the UTM though, we're navigating within the same website.

You can have multiple groups and they can change dynamically. Check out [the docs](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) for more details.

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_30_0-correlation.png" alt="TODO: Change this image" />

> 🎁 Group Analytics is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### Improved Correlation Analysis

> Correlation Analysis just got better! Aside from significantly improving the UI & UX, we've introduced a details option for advanced users looking for deeper understanding of how events and/or properties contribute to conversion or drop-offs. This new detail view will show a complete confusion matrix (which shows true positives, true negatives, false negatives and false postivies) plus a correlation score (from `-1.0` to `1.0` which signals how strongly performing an event or having a property correlates with conversion or drop-offs).

Author: CC @neilkakkar for thoughts

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_30_0-correlation.png" alt="TODO: Change this image" />

<br />

### Improved user experience

> We've been working hard on creating the best user experience, particularly in our core Analytics product. Creating and navigating insights will now be a lot faster and smoother. Improvements include: finding events & properties faster, overall faster navigation, improvements to tooltips, etc.

Author: CC @Twixes @mariusandra for thoughts

<br />

> @yakkomajuri Special Migrations context here?

Author: @yakkomajuri

- Fixed bug where private project names were shown to members who shouldn't have access.
- Plus 350+ improvements & fixes.

### Deprecation & removal notices

1. This version (`1.31.0`) no longer supports a Postgres-only deployment of PostHog. Read [our migration guide](/docs/self-host/migrate-from-postgres-to-clickhouse) for instructions on moving over to a ClickHouse version. ClickHouse provides faster queries and is optimized for very large volumes of data, and you will also get a new lot of features.
2. We're deprecating the **Sessions** insight (distribution of session length). Please [reach out](/support) if you have any feedback on this.

### Talk to us on how we can improve

We’re always working on improving the product experience and would love to talk to you! Please join one of our Product, Engineering, or Marketing team members on a quick 30-min call to help us understand how to improve. Schedule directly [on Calendly](https://calendly.com/posthog-feedback).

As a small thank you for your time, we're giving away awesome [PostHog merch](https://merch.posthog.com)!

## PostHog News

> Welcome Cameron DeLeone! Cameron joined PostHog to help us level up our Developer Relationships. Cameron is ?? (🍍 on 🍕).

Author: @camerondeleone what's your stance on pineapple on pizza and a fun fact about you that you'd like to share?

> Welcome Cameron DeLeone! Cameron joined PostHog to help us level up our Customer Success experience. Cameron is ?? (🍍 on 🍕).

Author: @camerondeleone what's your stance on pineapple on pizza and a fun fact about you that you'd like to share?

Reviewer 2: @paolodamico Pineapple on pizza: definitely not. I guess it's a valid culinary move, it's just not... pizza.

Fun fact: I've always been a food lover, and started talking about food at 7 months old (my first word was "broc" for broccoli). I haven't shut up about it since.

Author: Love it, thanks!

> Don't see the new features on your self-hosted deployment? Remember to [update your PostHog instance](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

**Release highlights:**
- [Group Analytics](#group-analytics)
- [Improved Correlation Analysis](#improved-correlation-analysis)
- [Improved user experience](#improved-user-experience)

### Group Analytics

Introducing Group Analytics! Group Analytics enable you to perform aggregation on multiple levels aside from Users. For instance, if you have a B2B product, you will now be able not only to identify unique individual users, but users belonging to a Company. This enables analytics such as retention by company, events performed by unique companies, among many others. 

You can have multiple groups and they can change dynamically. Check out [the docs](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) for more details.

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/1_30_0-correlation.png" alt="TODO: Change this image" />

> 🎁 Group Analytics is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### Improved Correlation Analysis

> Correlation Analysis just got better! Aside from significantly improving the UI & UX, we've introduced a details option for advanced users looking for deeper understanding of how events and/or properties contribute to conversion or drop-offs. This new detail view will show a complete confusion matrix (which shows true positives, true negatives, false negatives and false postivies) plus a correlation score (from `-1.0` to `1.0` which signals how strongly performing an event or having a property correlates with conversion or drop-offs).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Correlation Analysis just got better! Aside from significantly improving the UI & UX, we've introduced a details option for advanced users looking for deeper understanding of how events and/or properties contribute to conversion or drop-offs. This new detail view will show a complete confusion matrix which shows true positives, true negatives, false negatives and false postives. We've also added a correlation score from `-1.0` to `1.0` to signal how strongly an event or property correlates with conversion or drop-off.
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Correlation Analysis just got better! Aside from significantly improving the UI & UX, we've introduced a details option for advanced users looking for deeper understanding of how events and properties contribute to conversion or drop-offs. This new detail view will show a complete confusion matrix (which shows true positives, true negatives, false negatives and false postivies) plus a correlation score (from `-1.0` to `1.0` which signals how strongly performing an event or having a property correlates with conversion or drop-offs).
```

We've been working hard on creating the best user experience, particularly in our core Analytics product. Creating and navigating insights will now be a lot faster and smoother. Improvements include: finding events & properties faster, overall faster navigation, improvements to tooltips, etc.

<br />

@yakkomajuri Special Migrations context here?

### Other improvements & fixes
- Improved breakdown in funnels. We have a new vertical layout to display funnels broken down by a property (e.g. conversion by browser) that will make it even easier to compare conversion across multiple dimensions.
- Searching events & properties is now significantly faster. We've changed the way these properties are shown and we now list them by popularity within your team. Create those insights faster!
- Following our [lemonade redesign](/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0#fresh-new-look-and-feel) we now have a ton more UI improvements. In particular tables got a pretty slick facelift.
- We've improved the layout configuration for dashboards so they'll be more responsive and look better on very small or very large screens.
- Pushed significant improvements to the recordings list load time.

> - Introducing a new funnel query builder. We now group advanced options separately, so you funnel definition is clearer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Introducing a new funnel query builder! We now group advanced options separately, so funnel definition is clearer.
```

> - Fixed bug in feature flags when in certain cases a 0% release was considered as a 100% release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in Feature Flags where a 0% release was sometimes considered as a 100% release.
```

> - Fixed bug where private project names were shown to members who shouldn't have access.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where private project names were shown to members who shouldn't have access.
```

- Plus 350+ improvements & fixes.

### Deprecation & removal notices

1. This version (`1.31.0`) no longer supports a Postgres-only deployment of PostHog. Read [our migration guide](/docs/self-host/migrate-from-postgres-to-clickhouse) for instructions on moving over to a ClickHouse version. ClickHouse provides faster queries and is optimized for very large volumes of data, and you will also get a new lot of features.

> 2. We're deprecating the **Sessions** insight (distribution of session length). Please [reach out](/support) if you have any feedback on this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. We're [deprecating the **Sessions** insight](/blog/sessions-removal) (distribution of session length). Please [reach out](/support) if you have any feedback on this.
```

> ### Talk to us on how we can improve

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Talk to us about how we can improve
```

As a small thank you for your time, we're giving away awesome [PostHog merch](https://merch.posthog.com)!

## PostHog News

Welcome Cameron DeLeone! Cameron joined PostHog to help us level up our Customer Success experience. Cameron is a definite no for pineapple on pizza (🍍 on 🍕).

> I've always been a food lover, and started talking about food at 7 months old (my first word was "broc" for broccoli). I haven't shut up about it since.

## Community

Want to help improve PostHog? We always welcome contributions from our community! Check out our [contributing resources](/docs/contribute) to get started.

### Community shoutouts
We want to thank each and every community member that contributed to this release of PostHog!

- [abtinmo](https://github.com/abtinmo)
- [k4kuz0](https://github.com/k4kuz0)
- [vicampuzano](https://github.com/vicampuzano)
- [jyuvaraj03](https://github.com/jyuvaraj03)
- [ajsharp](https://github.com/ajsharp)
- [maxmue](https://github.com/maxmue)
- [hjweddie](https://github.com/hjweddie)

> - [timgl](https://github.com/asherf)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [asherf](https://github.com/asherf)
```

Lol, Tim gets enough credit in releases

- [Improved user experience](#improved-user-experience)

### New: Group Analytics

Introducing Group Analytics! Group Analytics enable you to analyze groups, which aggregate events within PostHog. You can have multiple groups and they can even change dynamically. 

Group Analytics is especially useful if you have a B2B product, as you will now be able to create a Company group type which tracks all unique users within a company, then create insights such as retention by company and events performed by unique companies. 

Visit our [Group Analytics documentation](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) to find out what else is possible with Group Analytics. 

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/group-analytics-list.png" alt="Example screenshot: List of groups" />

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/group-analytics-insight.png" alt="Example screenshot: Using groups in an insight" />

> 🎁 Group Analytics is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### Improved: Correlation Analysis

> Correlation Analysis just got better! Aside from significantly improving the UI & UX, we've introduced a details option for advanced users looking for deeper understanding of how events and properties contribute to conversion or drop-offs. This new detail view will show a complete confusion matrix which shows true positives, true negatives, false negatives and false postives. We've also added a correlation score from `-1.0` to `1.0` to signal how strongly an event or property correlates with conversion or drop-off.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Correlation Analysis just got better! In addition to significantly improving the UI & UX, we've also introduced a details option for advanced users looking for deeper understanding of how events and properties contribute to conversion or drop-offs. This new detail view shows a complete confusion matrix which shows true positives, true negatives, false negatives and false positives. We've also added a correlation score from `-1.0` to `1.0` to signal how strongly an event or property correlates with conversion or drop-off.
```

<img src="https://posthog-static-files.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/Website-Assets/Array/correlation-matrix.png" alt="Example screenshot: correlation matrix" />

<br />

### Polished: Experience of insights

Insights and dashboards are the core of PostHog's analytics capabilities, which is why we're putting extra focus on making using them _spark joy_. This release brings various improvements to the experience:

- You can now easily link to saved insights like so: https://app.posthog.com/insights/vMA1IlmP. While unwieldy query parameters were previously required, now all PostHog wants for Christmas is the ID of the insight. Merry sharing!
- Visualization of funnels has been reworked for improved readability of results, particularly when using breakdown. This makes comparing conversion based on properties easier than ever.
- Searching events & properties is now significantly faster. We've changed the way these properties are shown and now list them by popularity within the project. Create those insights faster!
- The funnel query builder has been streamlined – essential settings are better exposed, while advanced options can be expanded when you need them.

> - The dashboard grid has been simplified to avoid annoying situations where your carefully crafted layout becomes misaligned on a different sceren resolution. Instead of four complicated layouts, there are now two: single-column for mobile devices, and multi-column for larger screens.

Author: ```suggestion
- The dashboard grid has been simplified to avoid annoying situations where your carefully crafted layout becomes misaligned on a different screen resolutions. Instead of four complicated layouts, there are now two: single-column for mobile devices, and multi-column for larger screens.
```
